[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Alchemy is an
ancient occult science,
a seemingly magical process of
transformation that takes one
thing and turns it into another.
Crystal alchemy means
to transmute something,
whether it be physical,
mental, emotional,
or spiritual into something else
through the use of crystals.
Drinking a gem elixir is one
of the prime alchemical ways
to facilitate profound
vibrational healing by means
of the mineral kingdom.
In this episode, we'll learn how
to make gem elixirs according
to two different traditions, how
to choose the correct crystals
to concoct them with, and
how and why gem elixirs help
us transform ourselves
from the inside out,
so that we can become the
magicians of our inner
and outer worlds.
>> Crystal alchemy is the use of
stones and crystals to help us
transform ourselves.
They can be used
internally as an elixir,
or externally as
jewelry, or as stones
to hold during meditation
to help with the process.
As we age, our priorities change
and different issues arise.
When we're challenged
by the changes
we become aware of new
rough edges or old ones that
haven't been polished off yet.
Working with stones can
help us shed old patterns
and become clearer, more
conscious and present,
and bring more
integrity to our being.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Crystal alchemy is when we
are trying to draw the essence
out of the mineral kingdom and
using the crystals to raise
our own vibration, and there are
a variety of ways that we can
apply the crystal alchemy.
One example of crystal
alchemy is gem elixirs.
So, for example, a gem elixir
is a vibrational healing kind
of remedy, almost like
a homeopathic, where
you would take distilled
water-- the thing about water
is that it has an amazing
capacity for memory.
And when it's a
distilled water, it
holds no real signature or
information in and of itself.
It's kind of like a blank slate.
And whatever we put into
that distilled water,
it will then take on the
vibrational signatures
of that thing.
So when you put crystals
into the distilled water,
the water will kind of
take on the vibration
of that particular crystal.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> A very powerful and efficient
way to use crystals to help
and to heal is in the
form of crystal essences.
This is where we take
pure water and infuse
the energy and specific
programming of a crystal
into the water.
As water has memory
and can adopt and hold
that information, it
will retain the energy
of the specific crystal
friend that we have
put into it and the intention.
When we take this
water internally,
it will affect your body and
your physiology very rapidly--
within 20 minutes.
It's a bit like the way
homeopathic remedies work.
There are only minute,
undetectable amounts
of any material in a
homeopathic remedy.
Similarly, in a
crystal essence, there
is only the presence of
vibration and frequency.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When someone ingests either
a gem elixir, or really,
any alchemical kind of remedy,
whether it's from the mineral
kingdom or the plant kingdom,
it's going to work with
vibrational energy to
influence their consciousness.
So when it comes to
something like a gem elixir,
especially when it's
in distilled water,
and it's just the
vibrational signal being
held in that
distilled water, it's
going to very much work
like a homeopathic.
So we take some of it in.
We hold it in our mouth
for just a little bit.
And we kind of meditate
with it for a moment
and just allow that
vibrational energy
to be transferred from
the gem elixir into us.
And when you're meditating
and present with that process,
it can--
you'll feel the subtle energies
of how it is affecting you.
Sometimes a gem elixir can
also be sprayed in the aura,
and it'll kind of support
the energetic field
versus the physical.
But it's all going to work
through vibrational energy.
And when it comes to any kind
of work with homeopathics,
you want to make sure that
it's on an empty stomach,
that you're not having other
energetic signatures from food
or coffee or any alcohol,
any of these types of things.
You don't want it interfering
with the subtle energy that
is transferred from
that gem elixir.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When we drink water or
elixirs that contain stones,
we are ingesting the
essence of the stone.
That essence includes the
stone's chemical composition,
color, and crystal structure.
It also includes its ability to
absorb and refract or reflect
light, its softness or
hardness, its density.
All of these aspects of
the essence of the stone
are important.
But when we take something
into our own bodies,
we must be especially
aware of safety.
Of these factors, chemical
composition and hardness
are very important when
making stone water or elixirs.
The standard for identifying
the hardness of a stone
is called the Mohs scale
which assigns numbers,
starting with the
softest stone, talc,
as 1, and ending
with diamond as 10.
For purposes of
elixirs and waters,
I become mindful
of chemistry when
I use any stone with a
hardness of less than 7.5.
A relatively soft stone can very
slowly dissolve into the water,
so we really need to know
the stone's chemistry.
Some soft stones are
completely safe chemically,
such as calcite.
It is calcium carbonate,
and it has a hardness of 3.
Others, for example,
scolecite, contains aluminum,
and it's given a
hardness of 5.5.
If we're concerned about
heavy metal toxicity,
we can place the
scolecite with a quartz
crystal for at least 24 hours.
The quartz takes on the
qualities of the scolecite.
We call this
potentiating the quartz,
and it's completely safe
to put it into an elixir.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Always avoid making
crystal essences with azurite,
soft chrysocolla, and dioptase,
as they may leach harmful
substances into the water.
Also, you want to avoid making
essences with coral, malachite,
and turquoise, as they don't
have a crystalline structure,
and thus, will not
hold any programming.
If you don't have the specific
crystal with which you
want to make an essence,
it doesn't matter.
You don't have to have
a problem with that.
If example, you want to
make an emerald essence
but you don't have an emerald,
take a clear quartz crystal,
first program it as an
emerald, and then reprogram it
a second time with your
specific intentions
for which you're
doing that essence.
In this way, you are
sending true programs
into the clear quartz crystal,
and it will hold them both.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The Daoists had a
great interest in alchemy.
They especially were interested
in experimenting with stones
that by today's standards
we consider quite toxic--
stones that contain mercury,
arsenic, lead, and sulfur,
for example.
If you were a Daoist
hermit living a simple life
in the mountains, practicing
meditation and qigong exercises
all day long, you developed
a great sensitivity
to what was going
on in your body.
So taking these minerals
internally might have been OK.
But when the emperor
wanted only to live forever
without doing any practices
to help him become stronger
and more mentally
stable, the substances
would only make him sick,
go mad, or just die.
For the Daoists, the goal
of alchemical practice
was to go through a process
that would ultimately
lead to a total transformation
of their relationship to life.
It was a heroic, incredibly
difficult process.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
For the purpose of
modern westerners,
there is a group of
stones that exemplifies
the alchemical process,
and they are totally safe.
In Western mineralogy,
they are termed chalcedony.
But in Chinese thinking,
they are the agates, jaspers,
and chalcedonies.
The alchemical practice
has specific stages.
First, there is initiation.
We realize there is a
problem in our life.
Some spark of inspiration
comes, whether from a book
or a teacher, that
causes us to commit
to the formidable discipline
to really want to change.
We become aware of all
the ways we hurt ourselves
with our habits of
food or exercise,
thinking and beliefs,
with our habits of relationship.
This process is called the
separation of the clear
from the turbid.
Agates show us this process.
They have bands or
specks or other patterns
showing how different minerals
have separated themselves
from the others.
As we do this separation,
we find areas of blockage.
We just can't let go
of a particular habit.
We have to purify it out of us.
For this part of the
process, we can use jasper.
From the Chinese
point of view, jasper
is a single, strong
color, and it is opaque.
Choosing a color that represents
the area of difficulty,
we place the stone, hold it,
or make an elixir from it.
Purification takes a
long time, and things
change along the way.
Fortunately, jasper offers
us choices along the way.
We can use red,
yellow, green, brown
to help us clear out all the
various blockages we encounter.
When we're cleared
out of everything,
it's time for refinement
and stability.
It's all well and
good to do this work
in the privacy of your
home, your meditation space.
But then you go into
the world, and what
you thought was a stability
of your refinement
flies out the window.
It's time for more work.
Now, we use the chalcedonies.
These are also single color
stones, no bands or specks,
and are slightly translucent.
Again, we have a
variety of colors.
There's carnelian, which is
red or orange chalcedony.
There's blue or
white chalcedony.
Green chalcedony is
called chrysoprase.
There's pink chalcedony.
So we have choices
to work with as we
change our focus for
ever-deepening refinement
of our characters.
Finally, we are
complete in the process.
Jade is the stone that the
Chinese revered the most,
and it is jade that they use
to bring their completion
into the world.
They had gained
tremendous wisdom
during their process of
purification and refinement.
They had a duty to share
that wisdom with the world.
Again, we have colors--
green for righteousness,
lavender for integrity
and compassion,
yellow for loyalty,
white for devotion and
purity, and black for wisdom.
>> The method of creating gem
elixirs or crystal essences
depends on which
tradition you follow.
Here is an example of creating
a gem elixir according
to the Native
American tradition.
>> So today we're going to
give you a demonstration of how
to make crystal essences.
The material you
need is pure water.
You need clear, glass bowls
that have no design on the bowls
so it doesn't
influence the water.
And you need preferably always
outside, preferably in the sun.
If it's a day when
it's cloudy, it still
works, just not optimum.
When you have sunshine, like
we were gifted with today,
it's perfect.
You can use any crystal except
for malachite, chrysocolla,
and red coral, as they can
leach harmful ingredients
into the water.
So today we're doing
three essences.
Of course, green for
healing, and orange
for the electromagnetic
field, for the etheric web,
for strengthening
with a carnelian.
This is an emerald for
the green and aquamarine
for a clear thought--
clear thought, clear perception,
and reducing inflammation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So I'm sending the
same programming
as I put in the crystal,
sending it in through the hands.
And when the energy
receives it's optimal,
when the water has
taken all it can take,
I'll feel it beneath the hands.
That's part of the
training we get.
It's already coming up.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Separate rapidly so the
energy stays in there,
and tying it up
with the circles.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Good.
So things happening, and
we're going to leave this out
so the sunshine continues
the work of impregnating
the water with the
energy in the crystals
and the color of the crystals.
And we'll be back to
after take the water,
take the crystal out,
put it in the jar
that we can put in the fridge,
and they're ready to be used.
You can even take a
tablespoon, a soup spoon,
or you can take an ounce or two.
The amount doesn't
matter really.
As long as there's enough
to really fill your mouth so
that the underneath of the
tongue where the information is
going to start out is
well-impregnated, then
you'll have very good
results with your tincture.
And you want to keep it up I
think at least three weeks.
The people are
going to take this.
It has an immediate
effect, rather
than wearing a stone takes a
bit more time to have effect.
>> Another ancient practice of
making gem elixirs comes from
the Daoist tradition, otherwise
known as Chinese stone
medicine.
>> A stone elixir involves
soaking stones in water so that
the water absorbs the
vibrations of the stones.
Chinese medicine advocates
using three to four stones
in a formula because they
believe that interaction
is how we learn.
We interact with the stones, and
we interact with human beings,
and it helps us learn
about ourselves.
Making a formula implies
that we have a strategy.
This formula is
intended for the throat.
And I made it for
myself in anticipation
of coming here so that when
I spoke I would be clear.
The principle stone
is a sodalite.
It contains sodium
chloride, which
helps the body
retain fluid, which
helps thin the phlegm that
accumulates in the throat.
So the first stone
goes into the jar.
The second stone is
a transforming stone.
It's an agate, a
blue lace agate,
which we learned earlier
they consider agate to be
for real physical illness.
So there's really
phlegm in my throat,
so I'm using blue lace
agate, and it's going
to help transform that phlegm.
So it goes in the jar.
And now, I'm going to
add my enhancing stone
or harmonizing stone,
which is always
going to be a quartz crystal.
Quartz crystal comes in
many, many different colors,
depending on what
chemicals were around when
the stone was being made.
This is a blue quartz,
again, to target the throat.
It's blue because
of indicolite, which
is a blue tourmaline, which
also helps the body clear itself
of pathology.
Quartz in Chinese medicine is
known as the outstanding stone,
not because it's so
outstanding, but it
makes every stone it comes
into contact with outstanding.
So this is the blue
outstanding stone.
Finally, I have an
assistant stone.
This is because I know that
the reason I have phlegm
in my throat is that
my spleen is weak,
and it's not
transforming properly.
So I have orange calcite, which
is going to target the spleen
and help the transformation
happen better.
Now, I just take the water.
We don't want to use
tap water that has
fluoride and chlorine in it.
We just want the cleanest
water we can get,
which these days is mostly
bottled spring water.
We fill the quart jar.
And now, I'm going to put an
index card on top of the jar.
This is just to prevent any
dust particles from settling
into the water while it sits.
The Mason jar comes
with a metal lid,
but I find that it imparts a
metallic taste to the water,
and I don't like that.
So I use the paper.
You can use an envelope.
You can use anything
you want, so long
as it protects the water.
I normally let this
sit for 24 hours,
but for purposes of
this demonstration,
we're just moving on.
So I take my jar.
I pour four ounces,
approximately.
It could be eight ounces.
It's a lot more water to drink.
I like to do two doses-- four
ounces in the morning, four
ounces in the evening.
Drink the water slowly
and with consciousness.
Feel the coolness
in the tissues.
Follow the liquid
down your throat.
And when you're done,
refill the elixir.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And in the evening, I
would do another dose.
If you forget to
refill the elixir,
that's OK here and there.
But if ever it gets
more than half-way down,
and you fill it more than
half-way with more water,
you've pretty much
ruined the elixir.
So just dump it out.
Also, at this point
there's no taste.
It's just water.
But the longer it sits,
it can take on taste.
Some taste is fine.
But if it starts to taste at all
funky or particularly metallic
or just strange, just--
you're done with that elixir.
Pour it out.
And then if you need another
one, you'll make another one.
The stones are good forever.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And this is how
you make an elixir.
Depending on what you want
to treat for yourself,
you're going to need to
find your own stones,
and that means you
have to do research.
There are many
resources available.
There's my book
"Stone Medicine,"
but there are others.
Just make sure that
the information
is coming from a
tradition that has
a history of empirical
evidence or science.
>> As you venture out on your
personal quest for the elixir
of life, the alchemical formula
that will support the highest
vibrational version of
yourself, ground yourself
in the knowledge of
long-standing traditions that
have proven their efficacy.
The correct gem elixir for you
holds the power and potential
to excavate and bring to
light your true being, thereby
transforming your
consciousness and your reality.
Through this process
of purification
and for quenchal
refinement, we can find
and embody the inner liberation
we all seek and become
the human crystals, the human
diamonds that we are all
destined to be.
[MUSIC PLAYING]